[MUSIC]
I'm super excited for this video.
But a warning, if you have a phobia
of game design conversations,
then you might wanna look away now
cuz we are talking about game design.
We're talking about how do you
make your game more engaging,
more compelling, more interesting,
for your players.
And we're gonna talk about extreme tuning.
And you have to say it in that voice
whenever you say it, extreme tuning.
And I don't mean chewing,
as in you're gonna chew something.
This is my accent.
If you are from North America,
you might say tuning.
And what I mean is how you tune or
tune your game.
And the extreme part is when we look
at our our variables, our parameters,
the features we've created.
Instead of saying,
let's say I tune it from 1 to 1.2,
you tune it from 1 to 10,000
just to see what's gonna happen,
because you'll discover things that
you hadn't even thought about.
So this is the part of your project
where you've prototyped the features,
we've got a really cool
little game in there.
The ball's bouncing around, we've got
blocks, we've got our functionality.
Now is where you say,
how is this different?
How is this special?
How is this gonna make my player go, what,
and get really pumped up about the game?
And the way we do that is exploring and
experimenting and playing around with it.
And always,
when you're looking at your game design,
when you look at your prototype, when
you look at your game, always first say,
how can I tune what I have differently,
rather than saying,
how can I add an extra
feature to make it different.
Features take time and hassle and there's
complexity, but tuning you can do straight
away and quickly and easily, [SOUND] and
you've got a different game.
So let's have a look now at our game and
see what we can experiment with,
how we can push it,
how we can be extreme with it, and
just what all the different options are.
And at the end of the video I'm gonna
challenge you to come up with something
crazy and cool and interesting,
no matter how strange it feels like.
Just let go of the inhibitions and
just welcome the extreme into your life,
is what I'm saying.
So let's jump in and
have a look at our game.
Okay back in our project, let's have
a look at the process for extreme tuning.
What I like to do is look at every single
aspect of my game one piece at a time and
say, how could I be extreme with this?
So you can look through your hierarchy and
question every part of it.
You can look through your game scene,
look through your scripts.
Let's start by looking our hierarchy,
level two, every little piece of it.
Level two,
let's think about what could be extreme.
One extreme we could just have one
level that just goes on and on and on.
Another extreme we could
have thousands of levels.
Maybe when you hit one block
you go to the next level.
So it's all about quickly
bouncing between levels.
You could have huge levels.
So at the moment, where's our camera?
We could have our camera really,
really close, the other way, really close.
[LAUGH] Then that's a little bit extreme.
I'm not sure if that'd be fun,
but maybe the camera could move
with the ball in the future.
You could have the camera
all the way out and
this tiny little thing on the screen
that you're trying to play.
So maybe you have a little
television screen, and
you're simulating the fact that it's way
down the end of a tunnel or something.
So we can go extreme
with our camera as well.
Let me put that back to where it was.
You could do that just on that point,
just ideas, brainstorming here.
You could have one level, and you could
create another instance of your paddle and
another ball and some more blocks and
another background.
And you could have copies of your game, so
you could have three games side by side,
maybe nine games.
So you have to play nine
game simultaneously,
try to watch where the ball is going.
And that would be crazy interesting,
just multiple games going
on at once on that point.
So what else have we got?
Play space, we could change what
the colliders do, maybe when the ball hits
the collider it bounces off really
fast and that gives it a big boost.
So you're trying to avoid the colliders.
Looking at the level,
what are our hints in here?
Breakable blocks,
we don't wanna play around with that.
Paddle, well for me this is one
of the things I am gonna tune.
We could go extreme by saying let's
make the paddle really skinny.
That would be extreme and
difficult, I'd love to see that.
For me my idea is to have the paddle
wider, I'm just gonna stretch it.
This is a little bit of a clumsy
way to make my paddle wider.
But for now I'm gonna have it wider and
see how that feels.
For now we're seeing what works, right,
we're just playing around with it.
So a massive paddle for the ball.
What else is going on with the ball?
Well one of the things with the ball
is what's the push that we give it at
the start.
So the y push here at the moment is 15,
we could turn this up to a 100 and
the ball would be going really fast.
We could turn it all
the way down to one so
the ball is going slow,
maybe it builds up speed overtime.
Each time it bounces into something
you give it more velocity,
you give it more velocity.
Also while we clicked on the ball here,
let's see what else we've got.
We've got draggity, draggity, I was
trying to say we've got gravity and drag.
We've got gravity and
drag we can play around with,
we can change how the ball looks.
Maybe it's really, really faint.
So remember extremes that you can hardly
even see it, it's very transparent.
It's like, where is the ball?
It's a ghost ball.
Or you could have the ball really huge, so
this massive ball bouncing around and
it gets stuck in things.
You have the ball tiny,
you could do something.
One of my all time favorite things to
do when I'm doing extreme tuning is,
what happened if we duplicated and
had a whole bunch of these things?
So let's start off with four, five, six.
How many should we start off with?
I don't know, let's start off with,
duplicate that again.
That's probably about ten or
so, and put them up there.
Is it gonna work?
We might need to tweak our
code a little bit cuz there's,
the ball might not be looking
correctly for the paddle.
It might not know how to push off, etc.
So a little bit of tweaking we need to
do when we're doing our extreme tuning.
But for now we're just sort of
grabbing it and playing with it and
feeling that joy of messing around.
What else could we do in here?
We could change the sound effects,
have a lot of sound effects or
not a lot of sound effects.
We can have them really loud or
really quiet, very distracting.
What else?
In game session, what have we got in here?
Points per block.
Well we could make this
830,000 per block [LAUGH].
That extreme,
it doesn't really change the game play but
it's kinda weird and interesting.
Game speed, here’s one really obvious one.
Make it really slow, make it really fast,
just by tweaking this one parameter we
can make our game feel a lot different.
So for my game, I’ve made the paddle huge,
I’ve put in a whole bunch of extra balls,
I’ve increased the game speed.
And when we first push off, okay,
on our ball script here we have the push.
So we can change it.
We have different for different balls.
This first ones gonna go off at,
I don't know,
50 and this maybe this one goes off at 30.
So we change it around a little bit.
This one can go off at 100,
see how that goes.
And then every now and again, so
I'm going through the approach.
How do you go about your extreme tuning?
What do you look for?
And you look for every last little aspect.
Just play this to see how
it’s feeling at the moment.
It’s probably gonna feel crazy,
but that is the point.
Okay, now see if they all launch.
Okay, well that was extreme.
Yo, that was really fast.
I think I just won the level just
by pushing one button and they,
gonna do that again cuz
that was out of control.
That was I either won really quickly or
lost.
Actually you know what's happening
here is our lose collider,
when any the balls touch
the lose collider I lose.
So that's another thing that
we could play around with and
maybe have that it doesn't work that way.
For now I'm just gonna turn off
the lose collider and see if it's fun.
Play space, [SOUND] lose collider.
Obviously you don't need to be doing
this as you are working through
your extreme tuning.
Just watch me and
see what I'm coming up with.
Let's see, turn off the lose collider.
We'll see if this changes how it feels.
Okay, nearly got it.
You know what?
I kind of like that.
And boom, look at that,
that was kinda cool.
Then we need to have more blocks in there,
maybe blocks with a ton more damage on it.
Are whole bunch of these are invincible
blocks so it's really difficult.
You've got a lot of firepower, but you've
also got a lot of wall to break through.
So this is the philosophy
of extreme tuning.
Just experiment,
just have a good time, just be crazy.
And this leads me to my challenge.
Challenge is extreme to the max, yo.
Pick one or more aspect of your game and
push it to the extreme.
Create a gif, or gif, depends where
you live, or a short video or
a screenshot and share with
the community what you've come up with.
Or even just describe what it is that
you're doing, and really give it to it.
Really give it a good shot and
let us know what you've come up to.
I'd love to see it.
You've been so
awesome with sharing up to this point.
So jump in, take that on now, take on
that challenge, do something extreme, and
when you're done and when you've shared
I will see you in the next video.